The program receives standard input and prints it back by length of 60
Please enter 0 to use buffer for storage, or 1 - to use linked list
Please enter the text
*****************
The text has been received
***************
HistoryThe electrical telegraph systems, developed in the ea
rly 19th century, used simple electrical signals to send tex
t messages. In the late 19th century, the wireless telegraph
y was developed using radio waves.In 1933, the German Reichs
post (Reich postal service) introduced the first "telex" ser
vice.[2][3]The University of Hawaii began using radio to sen
d digital information as early as 1971, using ALOHAnet.[cita
tion needed] Friedhelm Hillebrand conceptualised SMS in 1984
 while working for Deutsche Telekom. Sitting at a typewriter
 at home, Hillebrand typed out random sentences and counted 
every letter, number, punctuation, and space. Almost every t
ime, the messages contained fewer than 160 characters, thus 
giving the basis for the limit one could type via text messa
ging.[4] With Bernard Ghillebaert of France Télécom, he de
veloped a proposal for the GSM (Groupe Spécial Mobile) meet
ing in February 1985 in Oslo.[5] The first technical solutio
n evolved in a GSM subgroup under the leadership of Finn Tro
sby. It was further developed under the leadership of Kevin 
Holley and Ian Harris (see Short Message Service).[6] SMS fo
rms an integral part of SS7 (Signalling System No. 7).[7] Un
der SS7, it is a "state" with a 160 character data, coded in
 the ITU-T "T.56" text format, that has a "sequence lead in"
 to determine different language codes, and may have special
 character codes that permit, for example, sending simple gr
aphs as text. This was part of ISDN (Integrated Services Dig
ital Network) and since GSM is based on this, it made its wa
y to the mobile phone. Messages could be sent and received o
n ISDN phones, and these can send SMS to any GSM phone. The 
possibility of doing something is one thing, implementing it
 another, but systems existed from 1988 that sent SMS messag
es to mobile phones[citation needed] (compare ND-NOTIS).SMS 
messaging was used for the first time on 3 December 1992,[8]
 when Neil Papworth, a 22-year-old test engineer for Sema Gr
oup in the UK[9] (now Airwide Solutions),[10] used a persona
l computer to send the text message "Merry Christmas" via th
e Vodafone network to the phone of Richard Jarvis,[11][12] w
ho was at a party in Newbury, Berkshire, which had been orga
nized to celebrate the event. Modern SMS text messaging is[b
y whom?] usually messaging from one mobile phone to another.
 Finnish Radiolinja became the first network to offer a comm
ercial person-to-person SMS text messaging service in 1994. 
When Radiolinja's domestic competitor, Telecom Finland (now 
part of TeliaSonera) also launched SMS text messaging in 199
5 and the two networks offered cross-network SMS functionali
ty, Finland became the first nation where SMS text messaging
 was offered on a competitive as well as on a commercial bas
is. GSM was allowed[by whom?] in the United States and the r
adio frequencies were blocked and awarded to US "Carriers" t
o use US technology. Hence there is no "development" in the 
US in mobile messaging service. The GSM in the US had to use
 a frequency allocated for private communication services (P
CS) – what the ITU frequency régime had blocked for DECT 
– Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications – 1000-fe
et range picocell, but survived. American Personal Communica
tions (APC), the first GSM carrier in America, provided the 
first text-messaging service in the United States. Sprint Te
lecommunications Venture, a partnership of Sprint Corp. and 
three large cable-TV companies, owned 49 percent of APC. The
 Sprint venture was the largest single buyer at a government
-run spectrum auction that raised $7.7 billion in 2005 for P
CS licenses. APC operated under the brand name of Sprint Spe
ctrum and launched its service on 15 November 1995, in Washi
ngton, D.C. and in Baltimore, Maryland. Vice President Al Go
re in Washington, D.C. made the initial phone-call to launch
 the network, calling Mayor Kurt Schmoke in Baltimore.[13]In
itial growth of text messaging[where?] was slow, with custom
ers in 1995 sending on average only 0.4 messages per GSM cus
tomer per month.[14] One factor in the slow take-up of SMS w
as that operators were slow to set up charging systems, espe
cially for prepaid subscribers, and to eliminate billing fra
ud, which was possible by changing SMSC settings on individu
al handsets to use the SMSCs of other operators.[citation ne
eded] Over time, this issue was eliminated by switch billing
 instead of billing at the SMSC and by new features within S
MSCs to allow blocking of foreign mobile users sending messa
ges through it.[citation needed] SMS is available on a wide 
range of networks, including 3G networks. However, not all t
ext-messaging systems use SMS; some notable alternate implem
entations of the concept include J-Phone's SkyMail and NTT D
ocomo's Short Mail, both in Japan. E-mail messaging from pho
nes, as popularized by NTT Docomo's i-mode and the RIM Black
Berry, also typically use standard mail protocols such as SM
TP over TCP/IP.[15] As of 2007 text messaging was the most w
idely used mobile data service, with 74% of all mobile phone
 users worldwide, or 2.4 billion out of 3.3 billion phone su
bscribers, at the end of 2007 being active users of the Shor
t Message Service. In countries such as Finland, Sweden, and
 Norway, over 85% of the population use SMS. The European av
erage is about 80%, and North America is rapidly catching up
 with over 60% active users of SMS by end of 2008.[citation 
needed] The largest average usage of the service by mobile p
hone subscribers occurs in the Philippines, with an average 
of 27 texts sent per day per subscriber.[citation needed]Use
sA text message on an iPhone announcing an AMBER AlertText m
essaging is most often used between private mobile phone use
rs, as a substitute for voice calls in situations where voic
e communication is impossible or undesirable (e.g., during a
 school class or a work meeting). Texting is also used to co
mmunicate very brief messages, such as informing someone tha
t you will be late or reminding a friend or colleague about 
a meeting. As with e-mail, informality and brevity have beco
me an accepted part of text messaging. Some text messages su
ch as SMS can also be used for the remote controlling of hom
e appliances. It is widely used in domotics systems. Some am
ateurs have also built own systems to control (some of) thei
r appliances via SMS.[16][17] Other methods such as group me
ssaging, which was patented in 2012 by the GM of Andrew Ferr
y, Devin Peterson, Justin Cowart, Ian Ainsworth, Patrick Mes
singer, Jacob Delk, Jack Grande, Austin Hughes, Brendan Blak
e, and Brooks Brasher are used to involve more than two peop
le into a text messaging conversation[citation needed]. A Fl
ash SMS is a type[18] of text message that appears directly 
on the main screen without user interaction and is not autom
atically stored in the inbox. It can be useful in cases such
 as an emergency (e.g., fire alarm) or confidentiality (e.g.
, one-time password).[19]Short message services are developi
ng very rapidly throughout the world. SMS is particularly po
pular in Europe, Asia (excluding Japan; see below), United S
tates, Australia, and New Zealand and is also gaining influe
nce in Africa. Popularity has grown to a sufficient extent t
hat the term texting (used as a verb meaning the act of mobi
le phone users sending short messages back and forth) has en
tered the common lexicon. Young Asians consider SMS as the m
ost popular mobile phone application.[20] Fifty percent of A
merican teens send fifty text messages or more per day, maki
ng it their most frequent form of communication.[21] In Chin
a, SMS is very popular and has brought service providers sig
nificant profit (18 billion short messages were sent in 2001
).[22]It is a very influential and powerful tool in the Phil
ippines, where the average user sends 10–12 text messages 
a day. The Philippines alone sends on average over 1 billion
 text messages a day,[23] more than the annual average SMS v
olume of the countries in Europe, and even China and India. 
SMS is hugely popular in India, where youngsters often excha
nge many text messages, and companies provide alerts, infota
inment, news, cricket scores updates, railway/airline bookin
g, mobile billing, and banking services on SMS.Similarly, in
 2008, text messaging played a primary role in the implicati
on of former Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick in an SMS sex sc
andal.[24] Short messages are particularly popular among you
ng urbanites. In many markets, the service is comparatively 
cheap. For example, in Australia, a message typically costs 
between A$0.20 and $0.25 to send (some prepaid services char
ge $0.01 between their own phones), compared with a voice ca
ll, which costs somewhere between $0.40 and $2.00 per minute
 (commonly charged in half-minute blocks). The service is en
ormously profitable to the service providers. At a typical l
ength of only 190 bytes (including protocol overhead), more 
than 350 of these messages per minute can be transmitted at 
the same data rate as a usual voice call (9 kbit/s). There a
re also free SMS services available, which are often sponsor
ed, that allow sending[25] and receiving[26] SMS from a PC c
onnected to the Internet. Mobile service providers in New Ze
aland, such as Vodafone and Telecom NZ, provide up to 2000 S
MS messages for NZ$10 per month. Users on these plans send o
n average 1500 SMS messages every month. Text messaging has 
become so popular that advertising agencies and advertisers 
are now jumping into the text messaging business. Services t
hat provide bulk text message sending are also becoming a po
pular way for clubs, associations, and advertisers to reach 
a group of opt-in subscribers quickly.Research suggests that
 Internet-based mobile messaging will have grown to equal th
e popularity of SMS in 2013, with nearly 10 trillion message
s being sent through each technology.[27][28] Services such 
as Facebook Messenger, Snapchat, WhatsApp and Viber have led
 to a decline in the use of SMS in parts of the world.Resear
ch has shown that women are more likely than men to use emot
icons in text messages.[29]ApplicationsMicrobloggingMain art
icle: MicrobloggingOf many texting trends, a system known as
 microblogging has surfaced, which consists of a miniaturize
d blog, inspired mainly by people's tendency to jot down inf
ormal thoughts and post them online. They consist of website
s like Twitter and its Chinese equivalent Weibo (微博). As
 of 2016, both of these websites were popular.Emergency serv
icesIn some countries, text messages can be used to contact 
emergency services. In the UK, text messages can be used to 
call emergency services only after registering with the emer
gency SMS service. This service is primarily aimed at people
 who, because of disability, are unable to make a voice call
. It has recently been promoted as a means for walkers and c
limbers to call[30][31] emergency services from areas where 
a voice call is not possible due to low signal strength. In 
the US, there is a move to require both traditional operator
s and Over-the-top messaging providers to support texting to
 911.[32] In Asia, SMS is used for tsunami warnings and in E
urope, SMS is used to inform individuals of imminent disaste
r. Since the location of a handset is known, systems can ale
rt everyone in an area that the events have made impossible 
to pass through e.g. an avalanche. A similar system, known a
s Emergency Alert, is used in Australia to notify the public
 of impending disasters through both SMS and landline phone 
calls. These messages can be sent based on either the locati
on of the phone or the address to which the handset is regis
tered.Reminders of medical appointmentsSMS messages are used
 in some countries as reminders of medical appointments. Mis
sed outpatient clinic appointments cost the National Health 
Service (England) more than £600 million ($980 million) a y
ear.[33] SMS messages are thought to be more cost-effective,
 swifter to deliver, and more likely to receive a faster res
ponse than letters. A recent study by Sims and colleagues (2
012) examined the outcomes of 24,709 outpatient appointments
 scheduled in mental health services in South-East London. T
he study found that SMS message reminders could reduce the n
umber of missed psychiatric appointments by 25–28%, repres
enting a potential national yearly saving of over £150 mill
ion.[34] Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, medical facilitie
s in the United States are using text messaging to coordinat
e the appointment process, including reminders, cancellation
s, and safe check-in. US-based cloud radiology information s
ystem vendor AbbaDox includes this in their patient engageme
nt services.Commercial usesA multimedia message displayed on
 a mobile phoneShort codesShort codes are special telephone 
numbers, shorter than full telephone numbers, that can be us
ed to address SMS and MMS messages from mobile phones or fix
ed phones. There are two types of short codes: dialing and m
essaging.Text messaging gateway providersSMS gateway provide
rs facilitate the SMS traffic between businesses and mobile 
subscribers, being mainly responsible for carrying mission-c
ritical messages, SMS for enterprises, content delivery and 
entertainment services involving SMS, e.g., TV voting. Consi
dering SMS messaging performance and cost, as well as the le
vel of text messaging services, SMS gateway providers can be
 classified as resellers of the text messaging capability of
 another provider's SMSC or offering the text messaging capa
bility as an operator of their own SMSC with SS7.[35][36] SM
S messaging gateway providers can provide gateway-to-mobile 
(Mobile Terminated–MT) services. Some suppliers can also s
upply mobile-to-gateway (text-in or Mobile Originated/MO ser
vices). Many operate text-in services on short codes or mobi
le number ranges, whereas others use lower-cost geographic t
ext-in numbers.[37]Premium contentThis section does not cite
 any sources. Please help improve this section by adding cit
ations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challe
nged and removed. (July 2008) (Learn how and when to remove 
this template message)SMS is widely used for delivering digi
tal content, such as news alerts, financial information, pic
tures, GIFs, logos and ringtones. Such messages are also kno
wn as premium-rated short messages (PSMS).[38] The subscribe
rs are charged extra for receiving this premium content, and
 the amount is typically divided between the mobile network 
operator and the value added service provider (VASP), either
 through revenue share or a fixed transport fee. Services li
ke 82ASK and Any Question Answered have used the PSMS model 
to enable rapid response to mobile consumers' questions, usi
ng on-call teams of experts and researchers. In November 201
3, amidst complaints about unsolicited charges on bills, maj
or mobile carriers in the US agreed to stop billing for PSMS
 in 45 states, effectively ending its use in the United Stat
es.[39]Outside the United States, premium short messages are
 increasingly being used for "real-world" services. For exam
ple, some vending machines now allow payment by sending a pr
emium-rated short message, so that the cost of the item boug
ht is added to the user's phone bill or subtracted from the 
user's prepaid credits. Recently, premium messaging companie
s have come under fire from consumer groups due to a large n
umber of consumers racking up huge phone bills. A new type o
f free-premium or hybrid-premium content has emerged with th
e launch of text-service websites. These sites allow registe
red users to receive free text messages when items they are 
interested in go on sale, or when new items are introduced. 
An alternative to inbound SMS is based on long numbers (inte
rnational mobile number format, e.g., +44 7624 805000, or ge
ographic numbers that can handle voice and SMS, e.g., 011332
03040[37]), which can be used in place of short codes or pre
mium-rated short messages for SMS reception in several appli
cations, such as TV voting,[40] product promotions and campa
igns.[41] Long numbers are internationally available, as wel
l as enabling businesses to have their own number, rather th
an short codes, which are usually shared across a lot of bra
nds. Additionally, long numbers are non-premium inbound numb
ers.In workplacesThe use of text messaging for workplace pur
poses has grown significantly during the mid-2000s (decade).
 As companies seek competitive advantages, many employees ar
e using new technology, collaborative applications, and real
-time messaging such as SMS, instant messaging, and mobile c
ommunications to connect with teammates and customers. Some 
practical uses of text messaging include the use of SMS for 
confirming delivery or other tasks, for instant communicatio
n between a service provider and a client (e.g., a stockbrok
er and an investor), and for sending alerts. Several univers
ities have implemented a system of texting students and facu
lties campus alerts. One such example is Penn State.[42] As 
text messaging has proliferated in business, so too have reg
ulations governing its use. One regulation specifically gove
rning the use of text messaging in financial-services firms 
engaged in stocks, equities, and securities trading is Regul
atory Notice 07-59, Supervision of Electronic Communications
, December 2007, issued to member firms by the Financial Ind
ustry Regulatory Authority. In 07-59, FINRA noted that "elec
tronic communications", "e-mail", and "electronic correspond
ence" may be used interchangeably and can include such forms
 of electronic messaging as instant messaging and text messa
ging.[43] Industry has had to develop new technology to allo
w companies to archive their employees' text messages.Securi
ty, confidentiality, reliability, and speed of SMS are among
 the most important guarantees industries such as financial 
services, energy and commodities trading, health care and en
terprises demand in their mission-critical procedures. One w
ay to guarantee such a quality of text messaging lies in int
roducing SLAs (Service Level Agreement), which are common in
 IT contracts. By providing measurable SLAs, corporations ca
n define reliability parameters and set up a high quality of
 their services.[44] Just one of many SMS applications that 
have proven highly popular and successful in the financial s
ervices industry is mobile receipts. In January 2009, Mobile
 Marketing Association (MMA) published the Mobile Banking Ov
erview for financial institutions in which it discussed the 
advantages and disadvantages of mobile channel platforms suc
h as Short Message Services (SMS), Mobile Web, Mobile Client
 Applications, SMS with Mobile Web and Secure SMS.[45]Mobile
 interaction services are an alternative way of using SMS in
 business communications with greater certainty. Typical bus
iness-to-business applications are telematics and Machine-to
-Machine, in which two applications automatically communicat
e with each other. Incident alerts are also common, and staf
f communications are also another use for B2B scenarios. Bus
inesses can use SMS for time-critical alerts, updates, and r
eminders, mobile campaigns, content and entertainment applic
ations. Mobile interaction can also be used for consumer-to-
business interactions, such as media voting and competitions
, and consumer-to-consumer interaction, for example, with mo
bile social networking, chatting and dating.Text messaging i
s widely used in business settings; as well, it is used in m
any civil service and non-governmental organization workplac
es. The U.S. And Canadian civil service both adopted Blackbe
rry smartphones in the 2000s.Group textsGroup texts involve 
more than two users. In some cases, when one or more people 
on the group text are offline, in airplane mode, or has thei
r device shut down, a text being sent to the group may revea
l an error message that the text did not go through. Users s
hould rest assured, that all online or available users on th
e group received the message and that re-sending the message
 will only result in some participants receiving the message
 multiple times.Online SMS servicesThere are a growing numbe
r of websites that allow users to send free SMS messages onl
ine. Some websites provide free SMS for promoting premium bu
siness packages.[citation needed]Worldwide useEuropeSMS is u
sed to send "welcome" messages to mobile phones roaming betw
een countries. Here, T-Mobile welcomes a Proximus subscriber
 to the UK, and Base welcomes an Orange UK customer to Belgi
um.Europe follows next behind Asia in terms of the popularit
y of the use of SMS. In 2003, an average of 16 billion messa
ges were sent each month. Users in Spain sent a little more 
than fifty messages per month on average in 2003. In Italy, 
Germany and the United Kingdom, the figure was around 35–4
0 SMS messages per month. In each of these countries, the co
st of sending an SMS message varies from €0.04–0.23, dep
ending on the payment plan (with many contractual plans incl
uding all or several texts for free). In the United Kingdom,
 text messages are charged between £0.05–0.12. Curiously,
 France has not taken to SMS in the same way, sending just u
nder 20 messages on average per user per month. France has t
he same GSM technology as other European countries, so the u
ptake is not hampered by technical restrictions.In the Repub
lic of Ireland, 1.5 billion messages are sent every quarter,
 on average 114 messages per person per month.[46] In the Un
ited Kingdom, as of March 2012, over 1 billion text messages
 were sent every week.[47] The Eurovision Song Contest organ
ized the first pan-European SMS voting in 2002, as a part of
 the voting system (there was also a voting over traditional
 landline phone lines). In 2005, the Eurovision Song Contest
 organized the biggest televoting ever (with SMS and phone v
oting). During roaming, that is, when a user connects to ano
ther network in different country from his own, the prices m
ay be higher, but in July 2009, EU legislation went into eff
ect limiting this price to €0.11.[48]Mobile-service provid
ers in Finland offer contracts in which users can send 1000 
text messages a month for €10. In Finland, which has very 
high mobile phone ownership rates, some TV channels began "S
MS chat", which involved sending short messages to a phone n
umber, and the messages would be shown on TV. Chats are alwa
ys moderated, which prevents users from sending offensive ma
terial to the channel. The craze evolved into quizzes and st
rategy games and then faster-paced games designed for televi
sion and SMS control. Games require users to register their 
nickname and send short messages to control a character onsc
reen. Messages usually cost 0.05 to 0.86 Euro apiece, and ga
mes can require the player to send dozens of messages. In De
cember 2003, a Finnish TV channel, MTV3, put a Santa Claus c
haracter on-air reading aloud text messages sent in by viewe
rs. On 12 March 2004, the first entirely "interactive" TV ch
annel, VIISI, began operation in Finland. However, SBS Finla
nd Oy took over the channel and turned it into a music chann
el named The Voice in November 2004. In 2006, the Prime Mini
ster of Finland, Matti Vanhanen, made the news when he alleg
edly broke up with his girlfriend with a text message.[citat
ion needed] In 2007, the first book written solely in text m
essages, Viimeiset viestit (Last Messages), was released by 
Finnish author Hannu Luntiala. It is about an executive who 
travels through Europe and India.United StatesIn the United 
States, text messaging is very popular; as reported by CTIA 
in December 2009, the 286 million US subscribers sent 152.7 
billion text messages per month, for an average of 534 messa
ges per subscriber per month.[49] The Pew Research Center fo
und in May 2010 that 72% of U.S. adult cellphone users send 
and receive text messages.[50] In the U.S., SMS is often cha
rged both at the sender and at the destination, but, unlike 
phone calls, it cannot be rejected or dismissed. The reasons
 for lower uptake than other countries are varied. Many user
s have unlimited "mobile-to-mobile" minutes, high monthly mi
nute allotments, or unlimited service. Moreover, "push to ta
lk" services offer the instant connectivity of SMS and are t
ypically unlimited. The integration between competing provid
ers and technologies necessary for cross-network text messag
ing was not initially available. Some providers originally c
harged extra for texting, reducing its appeal. In the third 
quarter of 2006, at least 12 billion text messages were sent
 on AT&T's network, up almost 15% from the preceding quarter
. In the U.S., while texting is mainly popular among people 
from 13–22 years old, it is also increasing among adults a
nd business users. The age that a child receives his/her fir
st cell phone has also decreased, making text messaging a po
pular way of communicating. The number of texts sent in the 
US has gone up over the years as the price has gone down to 
an average of $0.10 per text sent and received. To convince 
more customers to buy unlimited text messaging plans, some m
ajor cellphone providers have increased the price to send an
d receive text messages from $.15 to $.20 per message.[51][5
2] This is over $1,300 per megabyte.[53] Many providers offe
r unlimited plans, which can result in a lower rate per text
, given sufficient volume.